Add a blog: Introduction to EventWatcher (#5787)
pipe-cd/pipecd: docs/content/en/blog/eventwatcher-intro.md

2. What actions to take for matched events (`handler`)

(Example) Configuration to update the `spec.template.spec.containers[0].image` field in `deployment.yaml` when the `helloworld-image-update` event is triggered:

```yaml
apiVersion: pipecd.dev/v1beta1
kind: KubernetesApp
spec:
  name: helloworld
  eventWatcher:
    - matcher: # Which events to handle
        name: helloworld-image-update
      handler: # What actions to take
        type: GIT_UPDATE
        config:
          replacements:
            - file: deployment.yaml
              yamlField: $.spec.template.spec.containers[0].image
```

Full configuration reference:
https://pipecd.dev/docs-v0.51.x/user-guide/configuration-reference/#eventwatcher

#### 3. Event Triggering via pipectl or GitHub Actions

1. Event name (set in `app.pipecd.yaml` as `matcher.name`)
2. New value (image URI, etc.)

(Example) Command to trigger an event named `helloworld-image-update` to change the image URI to `ghcr.io/xxx/helloworld:v0.2.0`:

```sh
pipectl event register \
    --address={CONTROL_PLANE_API_ADDRESS} \
    --api-key={API_KEY} \
    --name=helloworld-image-update \
    --data=ghcr.io/xxx/helloworld:v0.2.0
```

> For GitHub Actions, using PipeCD's official `actions-event-register` is recommended (configurations are the same):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you're using GitHub Actions as your CI, using PipeCD's official `actions-event-register` is recommended (configurations are the same):
```

Author: thanks, i fixed 
[a0fdd04](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/pull/5787/commits/a0fdd0447869a4b0b614eef4d7f0408f79c6533a)

https://github.com/marketplace/actions/pipecd-register-event

> 

Reviewer: (Example) Using `actions-event-register` to trigger an event named `helloworld-image-update` to change the image URI to `ghcr.io/xxx/helloworld:v0.2.0`:

```yaml
      - uses: pipe-cd/actions-event-register@v1.2.0
        with:
          api-address: ${{ secrets.API_ADDRESS }}
          api-key: ${{ secrets.API_KEY }}
          event-name: helloworld-image-update
          data: ghcr.io/xxx/helloworld:v0.2.0
```

I think clarify with an example could be better 👀

Author: thanks, i fixed 
[a0fdd04](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/pull/5787/commits/a0fdd0447869a4b0b614eef4d7f0408f79c6533a)

---
date: 2025-04-28
title: "Introduction to EventWatcher: Connecting CI to PipeCD"
linkTitle: "Introduction to EventWatcher"
weight: 983
author: Tetsuya Kikuchi ([@t-kikuc](https://github.com/t-kikuc))
categories: ["Introduction"]
tags: ["Feature Guide"]
---

This article explains the basics of "**EventWatcher**", a crucial feature in practical PipeCD usage.

This article is intended for those who:
- "Don't know how to integrate CI with PipeCD"
- "Have found the EventWatcher feature but can't grasp how it works"

_This article is based on PipeCD v0.51.2 (latest at the time of writing)._

## Background: Why EventWatcher is needed

Basically, PipeCD is a CD tool that continuously deploys specified config/manifests.

![](/images/eventwatcher-only-cd.drawio.png)

> Deployment typically requires manifest changes, and PipeCD doesn't directly trigger deployments from CI pushes.
> 
> So, how can we "**deploy using a new image (etc.) after CI completion**"? It's annoying to manually update the manifest repo each time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deployment typically requires manifest changes. So, how can we "**deploy using a new image (etc.) after CI completion**"? It's annoying to update the manifest repo manually each time.
```
nits

Author: thanks, i fixed [602e41e](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/pull/5787/commits/602e41ec772f72d878b7add70268ec8d7e5ca789)

![](/images/eventwatcher-problem.drawio.png)

This is where the EventWatcher feature comes into play!

## What is EventWatcher?

EventWatcher is a feature in PipeCD that seamlessly connects CI and CD. It updates the manifest repo based on events from CI, triggering CD.

https://pipecd.dev/docs-v0.51.x/user-guide/event-watcher/

### Mechanism

The overall picture of EventWatcher looks like the diagram below.

![](/images/eventwatcher-overview.drawio.png)

The EventWatcher feature itself handles steps 4-6:

- 1-3. Develop new app code and store the results (container images, etc.) in a container registry
- **4.** Publish an event in CI to pass the new image URI to PipeCD
- **5.** Piped detects the event

> - **6.** Update the manifest repo by replacing the image URI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **6.** Update the manifest repo using the data provided that belongs to the event (image URI for example)
```
nits

Author: thanks, i fixed

[602e41e](https://github.com/pipe-cd/pipecd/pull/5787/commits/602e41ec772f72d878b7add70268ec8d7e5ca789)
